Whole-brain high-resolution T1-weighted structural MRI scans were collected on a 3T (Siemens Trio, Erlangen, Germany; repetition time = 1620 ms, echo time = 3.87 ms, field of view = 192 x 256 mm, 1x1x1 mm voxels) scanner using an eight-channel or sixty-four channel head coil. Lesions were manually segmented on each LCVA participant’s T1-weighted structural scan by a trained research assistant under the supervision of an experienced neurologist, both of whom were naïve to the study hypotheses. Lesioned voxels, consisting of both grey and white matter, were assigned a value of 1 and preserved voxels were assigned a value of 0. Binarized lesion masks were registered to a standard template (Montreal Neurological Institute “Colin27”) using a symmetric diffeomorphic registration algorithm (Avants et al., 2008; www.picsl.upenn.edu/ANTS). Volumes were first registered to an intermediate template comprised of healthy brain images acquired on the same scanner. Volumes were then mapped onto the “Colin27” template to complete the transformation into standardized space. To confirm the accuracy of this transformation process, the supervising neurologist inspected all lesion maps. For increased accuracy, the pitch of the template was rotated to approximate the slice plane of each LCVA participant’s scan. This method achieves high intra- and inter-rater reliability (Schnur et al., 2009). Refer to Figure 1 for lesion overlap among the 36 participants with high resolution MRI anatomical scans.

Support vector regression-lesion symptom mapping (SVR-LSM) was performed in MATLAB using the SVR-LSM GUI toolbox (DeMarco & Turkeltaub, 2018). SVR-LSM is a multivariate analysis technique that uses machine learning to determine the association between lesioned voxels and behavior, while considering the lesion status of all voxels. Importantly, this approach overcomes limitations of standard voxel-based lesion symptom mapping (VLSM), including inflated false positives from correlated neighboring voxels (Pustina et al., 2018), Type II error due to correction for multiple comparisons (Bennett et al., 2009), uneven statistical power due to biased lesion frequency as a function of vascular anatomy (Mah et al., 2014; Sperber & Karnath, 2018), and inability to account for multiple regions involved in a single behavior (Herbet et al., 2015; Mah et al., 2014; Mirman et al., 2015). Only voxels lesioned in at least four participants were included. Voxelwise statistical significance was determined using a Monte Carlo style permutation analysis (10,000 iterations) in which the critical behavioral data were randomly assigned to a lesion map, and the resulting map was set to a threshold of p < 0.05 to determine chance-level likelihood of a lesion-symptom relationship. We eliminated any clusters with fewer than 500 contiguous voxels (Lacey et al., 2017; Skipper-Kallal et al., 2017). We used the Automated Anatomical Labeling (AAL) atlas (Rolls et al., 2020) and Johns Hopkins diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)-based probabilistic white matter tractography atlas (Mori et al., 2008) to assess the overlap of significant voxels in the SVR-LSM analyses with cortical regions and major white matter fibers at a probability threshold of 25% (see Watson & Buxbaum, 2015).